docs: Cover new system design in readme (#357)
Quansight/Quansight-website: README.md

The process for creating, updating, or deleting content in Storyblok is the
same. There are three major stages, each with its own steps.

1. Editing
   1. Make your changes in Storyblok.
   2. Preview how your changes will look on the site using Storyblok's preview
      iframe. You should see a yellow banner at the top of the page telling you
      that you can see unpublished content.
   3. Save your changes.
2. Publishing
   1. Subscribe to Slack channel `#vercel-notifications` if you are not already
      subscribed.
   2. Once your content changes are approved, click the publish button in
      Storyblok. Remember, clicking "publish" means that you are certifying that
      to the best of your knowledge, these changes should be ready to be
      deployed at any time to the live website. When you click the publish
      button, Storyblok will make a request to Vercel to start a preview
      deployment.
   3. Look for deployment notifications in Slack. Vercel will send a message to
      the `#vercel-notifications` channel containing a link to the preview URL.
   4. Visit the Vercel preview URL to review and double-check your changes.
3. Going live

>    1. When you want your changes to go to the live production site, coordinate

Reviewer: Is this merge to `main` still going to be mediated by an entry in {CONTENT_CHANGELOG}?

Author: The librarian in me definitely wants this to be a part of the process. 

The developer/code-shipper in me worries about it slowing the team down. It adds a step to onboarding content people. It adds cognitive overhead: for example, if I make a tiny typo fix, say adding an "s" to the end of one word on a page, do I need to add that to the content log? 

I think this points to a flaw in the design decision I describe in this document for hotfixes. The suggestion is to add an entry to the change log. But maybe instead of calling it a change log, it should just be called a hotfix log?

@trallard do you have any thoughts on a content plus code change log? 

My biggest concern is the limited time that dev team members have. And this potentially adds a non-trivial step to the process: when merging develop into main, a developer has to make sure the change log reflects both the code changes in the merge pull request, as well as the content changes in Storyblok. But those content changes are not visible from within the GitHub UI. And there's no summary view of them in Storyblok either, so that requires either (a) a very diligent content team that always updates the change log with content changes, or (b) it requires the developer to reach out to someone on the content team to fill in the log. I dunno. I'm worried that the longer a deploy takes, the more cumbersome it is, the less inclined anyone will be towards wanting to do it. So maybe the rule would have to be something like: content editors are responsible for updating the content log on GitHub whenever they make changes. 

Actually... oh hm, idea: instead of hooking up the "publish" button in Storyblok to a Vercel webhook, require an update to the change log in order to kick off a deploy with the latest published content? Ah but if the content team decides to essentially queue up content by hitting publish over a span of days and only then decides to update the change log but in the meantime the code team wants to push some code to the main branch, now we're back in the same problem again.

      with the dev team to open a merge pull request to the `main` branch on
      GitHub.
   2. When the Vercel GitHub app comments on the merge PR with a preview URL,
      visit that preview URL to check your changes. (You should also be able to
      get the Vercel preview URL from the Slack channel.)
   3. If it all looks good, coordinate with the dev team to merge the PR to
      `main`.
   4. Once that PR is merged to main, wait for the production build to finish
      deploying (check Slack channel for notifications), then check your changes
      against the live site. You may need to clear your browser's cache before

>       you can see your changes.

Author: If you were counting, you would have noticed that this workflow asks a content editor to check their work three times after they've finished reviewing it in the Storyblok UI: once after hitting the "Publish" button, once after the develop-to-main PR is created, and then once after that PR is closed/merged/deployed to production. Is that too many?

Reviewer: It's more than would be ideal, but I don't think it's wise to remove any of the three.

- The check after a Storyblok Publish lets the content editor check the `published` version without dev interaction
- The check of the develop->main PR is the only one that might be eliminated -- if this first one :arrow_up:  is rendered against `develop`, then this :arrow_left: *should* be the same. But, it's still a sensible check anyways.
- The check of the live site after a merge to `main` has to be done.

### Code changes (GitHub)

Code changes move through three stages, each of which corresponds to a branch in
git: a feature branch, then the `develop` branch, then `main`. When your code

> gets merged to the main branch, Vercel deploys it the public website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gets merged to the `main` branch, Vercel deploys it the public website.
```

You should never merge your code into the `develop` branch unless it's ready for

> deployment (via merge to main). Putting your code into the `develop` branch is a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deployment (via merge to `main`). Putting your code into the `develop` branch is a
```

public website.

These are the concrete steps to follow to move your code from branch to branch:

1. Open a pull request against the `develop` branch. This will kick off preview
   deployments in Vercel. Vercel will add a comment to your pull request with
   links to the preview URL.
2. Check one or both preview URLs depending on whether your change affects one
   or both sites.
3. Once your pull request has been reviewed and approved, commit it to the
   `develop` branch.
4. When you want your code change to go live, open a pull request to merge the
   `develop` branch into `main`.
5. Review both preview URLs that Vercel will add to your pull request.
6. If all looks good and your pull request has gotten approval, then merge it
   into `main`. This will kick off a production deploy on Vercel. Check the live
   public websites once the deploy is finished (Vercel will send a notification
   to the Slack channel). You may need to clear your browser's cache before you
   can see your changes.

## Integrations

Making changes to the website relies on the ability of several different
services to interact with each other. This section covers each service one by

> one and how it integrates with some of the other services.

Reviewer: This section seems like it's targeted at developers. If so, should note that explicitly.

### GitHub

The Vercel app is installed on GitHub. The app kicks off deployments on Vercel
whenever someone opens a pull request or pushes a commit to the repo. All of
these deployments are preview deployments (meaning they use the preview

> enviroment and its associated environment variables), except for commits to the

Reviewer: Do you mean "preview environments" here in specific reference to Vercel's definitions of the terms? If so, probably would be good to note explicitly, and cross-ref the relevant Vercel docs again.

> `main` branch. Commits to the main branch are specially recognized by Vercel as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`main` branch. Commits to the `main` branch are specially recognized by Vercel as
```

a signal to deploy the live website.

### Storyblok

Each website has its own "space" in Storyblok. Each space has its own
configuration. For example, the Consulting website Storyblok space has a

> separate pair of API keys from the Labs space.

Reviewer: "separate pair of API keys" comes out of nowhere here, ending this paragraph. I'd be inclined to merge this paragraph with the next.

both published and unpublished content on the site.

### Vercel

Each website corresponds to a separate project in Vercel, quansight-consulting
and quansight-labs, respectively. However, because both projects are mapped to
the same repository on GitHub, whenever a commit is made to the repo, whether
the commit was just for the Consulting site or just for the Labs site, it
triggers a preview deployment for both sites. Likewise, whenever a merge is made
to the `main` branch, it triggers a production deployment to both websites.

Each Vercel project has settings that allow it to integrate with Storyblok,
Next.js, and GitHub. Each Vercel project has three separate environments:
development, preview and production. The development and preview environments
contains the preview key to Storyblok. The production environment contains the
public key to Storyblok.

Each Vercel project is also configured with a webhook that Storyblok uses to
kick off a preview deploy of the `develop` branch whenever content is published
in Storyblok.

### Slack

There is a Vercel app for Slack. It is set up to send deployment notifications

> to the `#vercel-notifications` channel.

Author: A decision needs to be made here. Should there be one Slack channel for both Vercel projects (quansight-consulting and quansight-labs) or two separate channels? I lean towards one channel for simplicity. On the other hand, there is some minor potential for confusion, for example, if changes in the Storyblok Consulting space are made at the same time as changes in the Storyblok Labs space. The Vercel Slack bot will tell you which project it deployed, but you have to know how to look carefully at the message that the Vercel bot sends.

Reviewer 2: I lean towards one as well.

Reviewer: I like one channel also. It shouldn't be hard to train on where to look, to tell which bot message has the "Visit" link you should click.

### Next.js plus the codebase in this repo

The code in this repo is built on top of the Next.js framework. Next.js has a
feature called preview mode. When preview mode is turned on (via a cookie), the
Next.js framework dynamically renders each page; otherwise it serves a static,
pre-rendered page (except when doing local development and then it always
dynamically renders each page).

The code in this repo takes advantage of the Next.js preview mode to integrate
better with Storyblok and Vercel. When the code detects preview mode, it passes
`{"version": "draft"}` to the Storyblok API in order to preview content that has
been saved but not yet published.

There is also code that detects when the request comes from a Storyblok iframe.
In this case, it automatically enters into Next.js preview mode.

To help the end user distinguish what view of the site they are seeing, the
codebase defines a visual banner at the top of each page. When the site is in

> preview mode, the banner turns green and displays a message telling the user

Reviewer: Yeah, something with less of a good/bad status-quality affect might be good.

Purple for Published, and gray for Saved, maybe?

> preview mode, the banner turns green and displays a message telling the user

Author: I like that suggestion, but could we reverse it? Purple for saved, gray for published?

> preview mode, the banner turns green and displays a message telling the user

Reviewer: I'm ok either way, I could argue either side of the semantics of "what should be marked with the more prominent color, Saved or Published?"

> preview mode, the banner turns green and displays a message telling the user

Author: My reasoning:

- Gray is more muted, doesn't call so much attention to itself, which I think is suggestive of the idea that published is closer to what you'll see on production, so maybe it doesn't need to call attention to itself. Whereas when you're looking at saved content, you're seeing different content than what you'll see in the next deploy, so maybe we should draw attention to that fact with an attention grabbing color.
- I know my brain (and maybe other people's too) is going to think of Next.js preview mode as being turned on/off. I think gray suggests off, and when paired against gray, the color purple suggests on.

> preview mode, the banner turns green and displays a message telling the user

Reviewer: On your second bullet, I would actually argue the other way. The primary stored-data version you interact with in the Storyblok editor is Saved, not Published -- so for that, gray = Saved would represent 'no difference from what you see in Storyblok' whereas purple = Published represents 'this may be different from what you see in Storyblok'

> preview mode, the banner turns green and displays a message telling the user

Author: Yeah, it really depends on one's perspective. 

But I wonder... if we use [saved=purple, published=gray] then when you're making changes in Storyblok you'll see the purple banner in the preview iframe. So then later, if you look at a vercel.app preview URL that has been popped out of Next.js preview mode (so now it's showing a gray banner and published content), would the ABSENCE of a vivid color like purple from the banner that you're used to seeing be enough to catch your attention?

> preview mode, the banner turns green and displays a message telling the user

Reviewer: Mmm, great point.

Yeah, you've convinced me, i like your way better.

Just struck me, though: we should probably pick a color that *clashes* with the site colors, so not purple. Bright white? Orange?

Let's take the row labeled "Vercel URL (green banner)." This view is accessed by
clicking on a Vercel SHA-style URL, which looks like
https://quansight-labs-SHA-quansight.vercel.app. Typically this URL is found
either on a GitHub pull request or in Slack. The site served by that URL can be
built from any branch or commit on GitHub except `main`, which is reserved for
production. It is built with the "preview" Vercel environment. It does not start
in Next.js preview mode (though it can switch into it). The preview Vercel
environment contains the preview Storyblok API key. The site passes
`version=published` to the Storyblok API. It displays a green banner at the top
of each page. And the green banner contains a way for the end user to switch in
and out of the Next.js preview mode.

Note that within Storyblok, there is no button to switch out of preview mode.
This was done by design because the whole point of the Storyblok UI is to be
able to preview unpublished content.

## System design decisions

> Each website should have only one project in Vercel. Having more than one

Reviewer 2: I like this!

Reviewer: Concur, this is one of the best features of your rewrite, @gabalafou

project results in several preview URLs being posted to each pull request on
GitHub, which makes it hard for reviewers to know which preview URL they should
review. With only one project per website, you get one preview URL for each
website posted to the pull request. If it's not clear from the pull request
title or code which website the PR affects, the author should clarify in the PR

> description.

Reviewer: We could use the `LLC` and `Labs` Github tags on the PR to indicate the sites that are affected by that PR?

potential for confusion. For example, if someone takes a screenshot of a
webpage, and in the screenshot you can see in the browser address bar that the
URL is on the live production site (such as quansight.com), then you will be
able to safely assume that you're seeing content that was published at the time
the `main` branch was deployed to production. The other reason for this
discipline is that it's better to force reviewers and content editors into
previewing unpublished content against the `develop` branch in order to help
catch any potential code/content conflicts before merging to `main`.

When viewing the site in local development or at a Vercel preview URL, there
should be a banner that explains that you are looking at a preview of the site.
This helps reduce confusion when screenshots are shared. This banner should not
be present on a production build of the site.

The preview/development environment banner should allow the user the user to
toggle between seeing published versus saved Storyblok content. The banner
should change colors to indicate which of the two types of content preview modes
the user is in.

> Except when the user is using the Storyblok web interface; then the website

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above should hold *except* when the user is using the Storyblok web interface; then the website
```

as mentioned previously, it should show this content against the latest code
from the `develop` branch (not the main branch). Related: the content team
shouldn't have to think about which URL to use in the Storyblok editor. It
should be just one URL, and this URL should show draft content against the
latest in `develop`.

When a reviewer visits a Vercel preview URL, the site should show published and
unpublished content by default. This, again, is to help catch any potential
content/code conflicts early. The banner at the top of the site will allow the
reviewer to easily switch the content mode from published to draft.

However, when a reviewer visits a Vercel preview URL built from the develop
branch AND they are not within the Storyblok editor, the default should be to
show published content. This is because a Vercel preview URL generated from the
develop branch will typically be visited from a pull request to merge the
develop branch into the main branch, in which case the idea is that you want to
see a preview that more closely matches what will be deployed to production
(meaning, only published content). If the reviewer wants to see unpublished

> content, they can use the banner at the top to switch modes.

Reviewer 2: Let me see if I follow you. 
Are you suggesting to set different defaults for vercel preview links from develop branch PRs, such that 
- The switch to unpublished content is disabled? 
- Or just that the default will be to first view the published, but one can still click the banner to view unpublished? We just assume this isn't the goal here. 

I guess the latter might be interesting sometimes 🤔 If you see that there are a few more changes queued up you might want to add them before doing the merge to main?

> content, they can use the banner at the top to switch modes.

Author: I hope this second explanation clears up your question @noa! But let me know if it's still not clear ;-)

code changes, so they follow the process for code changes.

This section will cover the process for each type of change.

### Content changes (Storyblok)

Content in Storyblok moves through several stages: drafting, reviewing, ready to
publish, published, deployed. It's confusing, but "published" in our Storyblok
configuration does not actually mean that the content has gone live on the
corresponding public website. However, you should never publish any content in
Storyblok if it is not ready for public presentation. In our configuration,
publishing content in Storyblok is a signal to the rest of the team that says:
this content is ready at any time to appear on the public website. If it's not
ready, don't hit the publish button.

The Storyblok process is covered in more detail in the GitHub repo's wiki. A
simplified version is presented here.

The process for creating, updating, or deleting content in Storyblok is the
same. There are three major stages, each with its own steps.

1. Editing
   1. Make your changes in Storyblok.
   2. Preview how your changes will look on the site using Storyblok's preview

>       iframe. You should see a yellow banner at the top of the page telling you

Author: yellow ;)

>       iframe. You should see a yellow banner at the top of the page telling you

Reviewer: Yeaaah, probably several of my comments are out of date now. :-P

(quansight-consulting-<SHA>-quansight.vercel.app).

There is a fair amount of code in the codebase that integrates with Storyblok.
For example, there is a bridge that syncs the site with changes coming from the
Storyblok editor.

There is also some middleware that checks if the HTTP referrer is
`https://app.storyblok.com/`. In that case, the code assumes that the end user
is coming to the site from within the Storyblok iframe. So it puts the user in
Next.js preview mode. When the user is in preview mode, the website shows a
yellow banner at the top of the page, letting the user know that they are seeing
draft content on the site.

### Vercel

Each website corresponds to a separate project in Vercel, quansight-consulting
and quansight-labs, respectively. However, because both projects are mapped to
the same repository on GitHub, whenever a commit is made to the repo, whether
the commit was just for the Consulting site or just for the Labs site, it
triggers a preview deployment for both sites. Likewise, whenever a merge is made
to the `main` branch, it triggers a production deployment to both websites.

Each Vercel project has settings that allow it to integrate with Storyblok,

> Next.js, and GitHub. Each Vercel project has three separate environments:

Author: Always true

| Production                 | .com/.org URL          | `main`        | production | public            | off              | `published`             | No                  | n/a              | n/a                           |
| Storyblok (yellow banner)  | via Storyblok UI       | `develop`     | preview    | preview           | on               | `draft`                 | Yes                 | gray             | No                            |
| Vercel URL (gray banner)   | via link to Vercel URL | any non-main  | preview    | preview           | off              | `published`             | Yes                 | yellow           | Yes                           |
| Vercel URL (yellow banner) | via enter-preview      | any non-main  | preview    | preview           | on               | `draft`                 | Yes                 | gray             | Yes                           |

Let's take the row labeled "Vercel URL (gray banner)." This view is accessed by
clicking on a Vercel SHA-style URL, which looks like

> https://quansight-labs-SHA-quansight.vercel.app. Typically this URL is found

Author: ```suggestion
`https://labs-git-{SHA}-quansight.vercel.app`. Typically this URL is found
```

either on a GitHub pull request or in Slack. The site served by that URL can be
built from any branch or commit on GitHub except `main`, which is reserved for
production. It is built with the "preview" Vercel environment. It does not start
in Next.js preview mode (though the end user can switch into it). The preview
Vercel environment contains the preview Storyblok API key. The site passes
`version=published` to the Storyblok API. It displays a gray banner at the top

> of each page. And the gray banner contains a way for the end user to switch in

Author: ```suggestion
of each page, and that gray banner contains a way for the end user to switch in
```

to and out of the Next.js preview mode.

Note that within Storyblok, there is no button to switch out of preview mode.
This was done by design because the whole point of the Storyblok UI is to be
able to preview content that hasn't been published yet.

> ## System design decisions

Reviewer: Is this section mostly a collection of rationales for various decisions reflected in the sections above this point?

Asking for clarification, looking toward the future and the eventual organization/structure of all this content.

Author: yes that's correct

Each website should have only one project in Vercel. Having more than one
project results in several preview URLs being posted to each pull request on
GitHub, which makes it hard for reviewers to know which preview URL they should
review. With only one project per website, you get one preview URL (per website)
posted to the pull request. If it's not clear from the pull request title or
code which website the PR affects, the author should clarify in the PR
description. Ideally, the PR author should add one or both of the (`Labs`,
`LLC`) GitHub labels, as appropriate.

Code in the `main` branch should only be used by the production Vercel
environment, and it should show only published content. While it may be tempting
to want to see draft content against the `main` branch code, it creates the

> potential for confusion. For example, if someone takes a screenshot of a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
potential for confusion and it is better not to allow it.
For example, if someone takes a screenshot of a
```

webpage, and in the screenshot you can see in the browser address bar that the

> URL is on the live production site (such as quansight.com), then you will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
URL is on the live production site (such as quansight.com), then there is no doubt
```

> able to safely assume that you're seeing content that was **published** in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that you're seeing content that was **published** in
```

Storyblok at the time the `main` branch was deployed to production. The other
reason for this discipline is that it's better to limit reviewers and content
editors to previewing draft content against the `develop` branch in order to
help catch any potential code/content conflicts before merging to `main`.

When viewing the site in local development or at a Vercel preview URL, there
should be a banner that explains that you are looking at a preview of the site.
This helps reduce confusion when screenshots are shared. This banner should not
be present on a production build of the site.

The preview/development environment banner should allow the user to toggle
between seeing published versus draft/saved Storyblok content. The banner should

> change colors to indicate which of the two content preview modes the user is in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
change colors to indicate which of the two content preview modes the user is in
(that is, whether they are seeing draft or published content from Storyblok).
```

The above should hold _except_ when the user is using the Storyblok web
interface; then the website should always be in "draft" mode, showing saved (but
not published) content. And as mentioned previously, it should show this content

> against the latest code from the `develop` branch (not the main branch).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
against the latest code from the `develop` branch (not the `main` branch).
```

Related: the content team shouldn't have to think about which URL to use with
the Storyblok editor. It should be just one default URL, and this URL should

> show draft content against the latest code in `develop`.

Reviewer: Seems inconsistent with the table above

Author: I don't see the inconsistency. You mean that the table has multiple rows but here I mention that a single URL? But there is a single URL for the content team to use in Storyblok, and it shows `draft` content against `develop`.

Reviewer: Yeah, I'm not sure where this comment came from -- I don't see any inconsistency now. I may have misunderstood what you wrote.

> When a reviewer visits a Vercel preview URL, the site should show draft content

Reviewer: This seems inconsistent with the table above

Author: It is. Thanks for the catch. I'm deleting this paragraph for now. Might need to revisit this decision later.

early. The banner at the top of the site will allow the reviewer to easily
switch the content mode from published to draft.

Hitting the publish button in Storyblok should not push that content to the
public-facing site; rather, it should queue up the content for the next
production deploy. This prevents bypassing any GitHub workflows that have been
set up for quality control.

Content that is marked as "published" in Storyblok should be ready to be pushed
to production at any time. Likewise, code that is merged into the `develop`
branch on GitHub should also be ready to be pushed to `main` at any time.
Respecting this discipline should allow anyone to deploy a new version of the
site to production at any time.

All production deploys should happen via commits or merges to the `main` branch.
Vercel is opinionated about this. We should follow the conventions and opinions
of the systems we integrate. If there is a content change that needs to bypass
code changes in the `develop` branch, a pull request can be made to simply
update a log file. That single commit can then be merged into the `main` branch
to kick off a deploy. This is a hot fix for content. A hot fix for code can be

> done in a similar way.

Reviewer: Any such hotfixes should then be back-merged to `develop`, right?

Author: yes I think so

help catch any potential code/content conflicts before merging to `main`.

When viewing the site in local development or at a Vercel preview URL, there
should be a banner that explains that you are looking at a preview of the site.
This helps reduce confusion when screenshots are shared. This banner should not
be present on a production build of the site.

The preview/development environment banner should allow the user to toggle
between seeing published versus draft/saved Storyblok content. The banner should
change colors to indicate which of the two content preview modes the user is in
(that is, whether they are seeing draft or published content from Storyblok).

The above should hold _except_ when the user is using the Storyblok web
interface; then the website should always be in "draft" mode, showing saved (but
not published) content. And as mentioned previously, it should show this content
against the latest code from the `develop` branch (not the `main` branch).
Related: the content team shouldn't have to think about which URL to use with
the Storyblok editor. It should be just one default URL, and this URL should
show draft content against the latest code in `develop`.

> When a reviewer visits a Vercel preview URL, the site should show draft content
> by default. This, again, is to help catch any potential content/code conflicts
> early. The banner at the top of the site will allow the reviewer to easily
> switch the content mode from published to draft.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
